.TH FIELDIFY "1" "October 2018" "fieldify 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
fieldify - normalize field separators in streaming data

.SH SYNOPSIS
fieldify [\-h] [\-\-version] [\-\-ofs OFS] [\-\-irs IRS] [\-\-ors ORS]
[\-\-regex REGEX] [\-\-bufsize BUFSIZE]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
This script consumes streaming data from standard in and splits it along a
regular expression, then replaces the splits with a set field separator. By
default, it collapses whitespace\-separated columns into tab\-separated columns.
.SS "optional arguments:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-ofs\fR OFS, \fB\-F\fR OFS
Specify output field separator. (default: \et)
.TP
\fB\-\-irs\fR IRS, \fB\-f\fR IRS
Override default input record separator. (default: \en)
.TP
\fB\-\-ors\fR ORS, \fB\-R\fR ORS
Override default output record separator. (default:
\en)
.TP
\fB\-\-regex\fR REGEX, \fB\-r\fR REGEX
Specify regex to split with, in Python 3.X re
format.This is used in lieu of an IFS. (default: \es
.TP
\fB\-\-bufsize\fR BUFSIZE, \fB\-b\fR BUFSIZE
Override read buffer size. (default: 4096)
.TP
\fB\-\-nomatchdrop\fR, \fB\-m\fR
By default, fields which match \fB\-\-regex\fR are dropped.
This prevents instances of the field separator from
appearing in the output. Asserting this option will
disable dropping such fields. This flag and the field
dropping behavior were added in 0.1.0.

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
$ echo 'axxxbxczdxexxf' | fieldify --regex '[x]' --irs z

.IP
a	b	c
.br
d	e	f

.PP
$ echo 'a  b c\\nd    e       f' | fieldify

.IP
a	b	c
.br
d	e	f

.PP
$ echo 'a  b c\\nd    e       f' | fieldify --ofs ','

.IP
a,b,c
.br
d,e,f

.PP
$ echo 'a  b c\\nd    e       f' | fieldify --ofs ',' --ors '|'

.IP
a,b,c|d,e,f

.SH NOTES

.PP
The \fB--bufsize\fR flag should never affect the output, but it may be
beneficial to tweak it for performance reasons in different use cases. If you
observe different output while changing the buffer size, you should report this
as a bug.

.PP
The behavior of the --nomatchdrop flag is demonstrated below:

.PP
$ echo 'list, of, several, things, and a final thing' | fieldify -r '(, )|(, and )' --ofs '|'

.IP
list|of|several|things|and a final thing

.PP
$ echo 'list, of, several, things, and a final thing' | fieldify -r '(, )|(, and )' --ofs '|' --nomatchdrop

.IP
list|, |of|, |several|, |things|, |and a final thing

.SH CHANGELOG

.IP 0.0.1
Initial version.

.IP 0.1.0

.IP \bu 2
Fixed a bug when a regex was passed via --regex that caused re.split() to
return instances of None.

.IP \bu 2
Fields yielded by splitting on --regex which match the regex supplied via
--regex are now dropped. This avoids edge cases where field delimiters can
occasionally appear in the output.

.IP \bu 2
Implemented the --nomatchdrop flag.


.SH HISTORY
.PP
Fieldify began as a simple awk script, which behaved identically to fieldify
with the default flags. It was rewritten in September 2018 in Python to support
arbitrary field and record separators, and to allow the input record separator
to be specified as a regular expression.

.SH COPYRIGHT

(c) 2018 Charles A. Daniels, All Rights Reserved.
