.TH NIOS2-SEARCH "1" "September 2018" "nios2-search " "User Commands"

.SH NAME
nios2-search - locate and query Altera Quartus installations

.SH SYNOPSIS
nios2\-search [\-h] [\-\-purge] [\-\-search]
[\-\-list | \fB\-\-list_version\fR LIST_VERSION | \fB\-\-setpref\fR SETPREF | \fB\-\-get\fR | \fB\-\-get_version\fR GET_VERSION]
[\-\-verbose] [\-\-version]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This script can be used to locate installations of Altera Quartus
(specifically the NIOS tooling packages installed therein). Once located, it
will cache the located instances so that they can be queried by other scripts.
Note that the cache is actually stored in user_data_dir (~/.local/share on
Linux) to prevent it from being inadvertently deleted by cache cleaning.
.SS "optional arguments:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-purge\fR, \fB\-p\fR
Purge cached installation directories.
.TP
\fB\-\-search\fR, \fB\-s\fR
Force a fresh search for Quartus
installationdirectories. This implies \fB\-\-purge\fR. Note
that the search operation can take a long time, as it
traverses the entire filesystem in its search.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fR, \fB\-l\fR
List installation directories. If the cache is empty,
then \fB\-\-search\fR is implied.
.TP
\fB\-\-list_version\fR LIST_VERSION, \fB\-i\fR LIST_VERSION
List installation directories where the detected
version number is similar to the one specified here.
.TP
\fB\-\-setpref\fR SETPREF, \fB\-e\fR SETPREF
Toggle preference state for the specified installation
.TP
\fB\-\-get\fR, \fB\-g\fR
Get the first installation directory flagged as
preferred, or the first if none is flagged as
preferred.
.TP
\fB\-\-get_version\fR GET_VERSION, \fB\-G\fR GET_VERSION
Get the first installation directory flagged as
preferred, or the first if none is flagged as
preferred, which also has a version similar to the one
specified.
.HP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR, \fB\-v\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit

.SH FILES

.IP cache.json

The cache file is stored in user_data_dir/nios2-search/cache.json. This is
usually in ~/.local/share on Linux. This is a JSON formatted data file which
encodes a list of hashtables, each of which contain a quartus version and the
path to that installation directory, for example: {"version": "14.0", "path":
"/opt/altera/14.0/nios2eds"}

It should be safe to edit this by hand or to copy it between machines, which
can be a useful approach on systems with shared filesystems (such as over NFS)
that are large and take a long time to enumerate.

.SH CHANGELOG
.IP 0.0.1
Initial version.

.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2018 Charles A. Daniels
