.TH SWIZZLE "1" "October 2018" "swizzle 0.0.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
swizzle - modify sub-group orderings of records

.SH SYNOPSIS
swizzle [\-h] [\-\-rs RS] [\-\-input INPUT] \fB\-\-spec\fR SPEC [\-\-output
OUTPUT] [\-\-onempty ONEMPTY] [\-\-no_strip] [\-\-version]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP

A tool for re\-ordering input records in an intuitive way. Input records are
ordered into groups of the same size as the spec (a spec of size 3 would mean
groups of 3). Each such group is re\-ordered according to the spec. The spec is
a comma delimited list of integers which act as subscripts into the group,
such that an input of 'a b c d' with a spec of '1,1,2,2' would produce as
output 'b b c c', and the same input with a spec of '3,2,1,0' would produce 'd
c b a'. This program was inspired by the 'swizzle' operation in the game
EXAPUNKS. If the number of records of input is not a multiple of group size,
then any references to non\-existent indices in the spec are simply ignored.

.SS "optional arguments:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-rs\fR RS, \fB\-r\fR RS
Override record seperator. (default: newline)
.TP
\fB\-\-input\fR INPUT, \fB\-i\fR INPUT
Specify file to read records from (default: standard
in)
.TP
\fB\-\-spec\fR SPEC, \fB\-s\fR SPEC
Specify the spec (i.e. 0,1,2,3)
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR OUTPUT, \fB\-o\fR OUTPUT
Specify a file to write the results to (default:
standard out
.TP
\fB\-\-no_strip\fR, \fB\-N\fR
Do not strip anything from the input. By default,
\&.strip()is called on each record of input.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
$ echo 'a\\nb\\nc\\nd' | swizzle --spec 0,1

.IP
a
.br
b
.br
c
.br
d

.PP
$ echo 'a\\nb\\nc\\nd' | swizzle --spec 1,0

.IP
b
.br
a
.br
d
.br
c

.PP
$ echo 'a,b,c,d' | swizzle --spec 3,2,1,0 --rs ','

.IP
d,c,b,a

.PP
$ echo 'a,b,c,d' | swizzle --spec 0,0,2,2 --rs ','

.IP
a,a,c,c

.SH HISTORY

swizzle was originally written in early September of 2018 after the author
spent an inordinate amount of time trying to find an elegant solution to
re-order individual PDF pages such that every sub-group of 4 pages had the
third and fourth page swapped. As a suitable shell-friendly solution could
not be found, swizzle was born.

.SH CHANGELOG

.IP 0.0.1
Initial version.

.IP 0.0.2
Remove unused --onempty flag, explicitly use sys.exit instead of exit.

.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) Charles A. Daniels 2018, All Rights Reserved
